- [Instructor] As discussed earlier,
there are multiple ways to get started
by creating an Amazon EKS cluster.
We are on the Amazon EKS website.
You can certainly click on Start using Amazon EKS,
and there's a lovely Getting Started guide
that you can follow along to create an EKS cluster.
Eksctl, as we discussed earlier, is a third
party tool created in the open-source by Amazon's
partner, Weaveworks, and this tool can be used
to create a EKS cluster.
It provides a seamless experience where
the control plain, the data plain and the connection
of the data plain to the control plain
is all done using a single command.
In order to get started, let's first install
the eksctl CLI.
This command will install the eksctl CLI.
As you can see, it downloaded eksctl 0.1.17.
Make sure you're using the latest version of the
eksctl CLI.
It also downloaded the aws-iam-authenticator.
The workflow for this we explained
in the previous section.
Our next step is to take a look at what our
eksctl version looks like.
The version is indeed 0.1.17 and then now
we're ready to create our cluster.
We're going to say eksctl, create cluster.
We want to give the cluster a name.
In our case, we'll call it as k8s-course
and we want the number of nodes to be four.
By default, it creates a cluster in
us-west-2 region for aws, and you can
certainly specify a region using dash dash region
switch over here, or you can say dash dash help
to see the complete list of options
that the eksctl provides.
This also uses underline aws CLI on your machine,
that is pre-configured for your access keys.
Let's go ahead and press Enter here.
All right, after waiting for a few minutes,
it creates the control plain, creates the data plain,
connects the data plain to the control plain
and our overall Kubernetes cluster is up and running.
As in previous cases, first thing we're going to do is
take a look at what configurations are available.
Now in this case, of course docker-for-desktop
and minikube are from previous sections,
and we can see there's a new context
that is available to us, which is our cluster
that we just created, and also the current context.
What means is any kubectl commands that I give now
are going to be directed to this particular cluster.
Let's get the number of nodes in this cluster.
And because we said four nodes, it's rightly
showing us four nodes in the cluster.
They've been up for about a minute,
status is all ready, and they all have version 1.11.5.
That's the version that is supported by
Amazon EKS today.
We can also say kubectl version, and just print
the short version.
Now it shows the kbuctl CLI is one 10 three,
and server version is one 11 five.
Let's also see how the cluster looks like
in our AWS Console.
Here I am in AWS Console, I can look for EKS service,
click on this here.
Now myeks is a cluster that I created earlier
where Kubernetes course is a cluster that
I created just now.
This screen shows you more details about the cluster.
Once again, Kubernetes version, API server endpoint,
Cluster ARM, Certificate authority, Role ARN,
these are all the values that you need
to access your cluster.